# XTC-Skiiing-App

Names: Raanee Smith

Background Research:

	While we tried to make XTC as unique as possible, when it comes to the market for ski watches and apps, XTC is not alone. There are many other ski watches out there that are very similar to our watch and make little differences significant in the ski watch market. While these differences may be few, we hope that the simplicity, interface, and design features can be large enough factors to deter users from competitors and deem our watch the superior creation. 

An app that is similar to XTC is “SkiLynx”. SkiLynx tracks your heart rate and vitals as well as stores the users’ ski pass. XTC and SkiLynx both provide a fun and versatile skiing experience as well as a safe one. What SkiLynx offers that XTC does not is a group messaging platform. XTC does allow its users to communicate through the application just not in a group setting. What XTC offers that SkiLynx does not is our voice command feature and a more aesthetically pleasing design interface. While their design interface is simple, it is almost too simple that it takes away from their aesthetic.

An example of a ski watch that is similar to XTC is Timex Expedition WS4. Both watches posses heat sensing features alongside with activity collection services. Even though both watches provide a simplistic approach to skiing there is a clear point where our watches differ. Timex Expedition WS4 has a lack of accessibility and communication features. The Timex Expedition WS4 has similar design features to our watch, but it instead allows for the watch to be controlled with physical buttons and knobs. While our watch can be controlled in the same fashion, ours also has a touch screen feature and voice command accessibility to allow for a more focused and safer ski experience. 


Brief Description of Interface:
	
For our project we decided to make an app for skiing called Cross Terrain Computer (XTC). This app would be compatible with a smartwatch specifically designed for skiing. Our mission for a perfect user experience would be a more exciting and simplistic approach to ski watches than ever seen before. Some features would include Walkie Talkie mode where you would be allowed to not only contact friends, but share skiing stats and your locations. Another feature that the app would posses is a QR code feature that would respond to the different code readers at various mountains you would want to ski at. Additional features would be emergency features that would consist of vital measurements and more physical features such as the watch being waterproof. ‘

Reflection:

	When designing the XTC app while the idea of it was easy to come up with, making the app as simple and clear as we wanted was a bit more complex than expected. During the Wizard of Oz testing, we found that coming up with the structure of the app was easy, but when it came to fully developing each path the user could pursue, the infinite options made all variables hard to control. For example, the settings had a list of basic options, but when the user started to click these options and the path started to expand, the group was unclear on the end point of each selection choice. Through this we learned that seemingly simple design features involve a lot of thought out processes and technological skills around coding, location services, and connectability components. 

	A problem that we stumbled upon that was never fully addressed was the limits the device’s size presented for all the information that was needed to construct our app. We often found that we wanted to put a large amount of information on the screen, but forgot that the size of the display would make that much information almost impossible to read. The lesson we learned from this was the material aspect of the device had a huge impact on the seemingly infinite playground of both data management and digital production. This made us think closely about the necessary parts of our information and how we could trim complex things down to easily understood, small, and straightforward interface options. Ultimately, this took us back to our point about the complications surrounding simplicity and our vision for everything our watch could be. 

	One thing we liked that we tried to implement into our app from class was the interaction of technology design with concerns about accessibility. From the video we watched about the evolution of video game design in relation to accessibility, we tried to implement a voice command feature, color-blind assist mode, and adjustments to size and brightness for easier reading. We liked the video’s ideas because they challenged us to think beyond our normative experiences (i.e., we are all able bodied) to push for a more inclusive app experience.    

	It was frustrating to not only have to adjust to fit what a certain group of people wanted, but then to also have a different test group identify new problems from the very changes we implemented for the original group. We didn’t like how user interaction conflicted with and caused us to stray away from our vision. For example, users often confused the user profile and walkie talkie icons for other features that we didn’t have. This made us have to change the problematic features and remove features we saw as helpful. Through this we learned the repetition in the trial and error process was a tedious part that, although necessary, we wish we could avoid.  

From creating our app the group has learned valuable lessons that are applicable to our future lives. For example, Raanee plans to major in computer science and has learned the importance of simplicity when it comes to minimizing complications. Andrew would take the affordability, size and versatility of the watch and app and use a similar design when buying future technological devices. These attributes offer him better judgement when purchasing devices similar to XTC. Nikki furthered her editing skills when it came to editing/designing the layout of the video for this project, which will help her to advance in her future career in media production. She also learned how to be more creative and aware while designing this watch because it took a lot of hardwork and a long thought process to come up with such an advanced product with so many ins and outs, when never having done something like this before, and she had to make sure that there weren’t other products that were too similar to ours. This project was beneficial to Faye because she is currently studying communications and working in a group environment throughout the time period of class allowed her to analyze how groups interact and communicate to get projects done and engage together sharing ideas. She also learned how to use innovative ideas to come up with a substantial, concrete product. Throughout the whole class, Faye really learned the benefits and downfalls of certain technology in our society today and how to proceed with technology in the future. 
